Now, we talked about hiring,
that's absolutely
a form of building a high-performing team,
but I think building and
maintaining a high-performing
team is just an ongoing thing.
Even if you're a new manager taking
over a new team, whatever it looks like,
there's existing people there.
Or even if you've hired those folks,
there's existing people and
there's things that you can do to
help build a high performing team.
So let's start by what does
a high-performance team mean?
And to me, it's like your team
is exceeding expectations.
I mean, at least you're meeting them,
that should be a bare minimum.
But hopefully,
you're really impressing people.
You're like, that team is dependable.
They're doing the work and delivering.
You have some sort of high
degree of efficiency.
So that can show up in many ways.
But I think of even just effectively,
I hate using the word resources,
even though I have it on the slide.
But you're effectively using
the engineers on your team and
that they're doing the right things for
the job, and sometimes that can change.
We talked about the charter and
things evolving over time.
Maybe your team, they have some
deep level expertise in GraphQL and
you stopped using that.
Maybe it's like that person should shift
to another team or things like that I
think about, and that you're effectively
using what's there for you and
you're thinking about, do I have the right
people for the job that we have at hand?
Your customers/stakeholders are satisfied.
They're happy, and how do you know that?
Well, ask them, how's my team showing up?
Are we collaborating well?
Are we meeting your expectations?
What could be better?
And that's where I think
that as a manager,
those are the types of things that yeah,
absolute, my team can do that.
But I'm gonna be meeting with
the partners as well, and just checking,
getting a pulse on that.
What's not working?
How can we do better?
That helps me, and
I can work with my team.
Maybe I disagree, too.
It's like, well, that's actually
not part of our charter to do that.
So I can also clarify with the partner
that you actually have the wrong
expectations.
Hopefully, your leadership team above
you values the output from your team.
And those should be ongoing
conversations as well.
I hope that if there's problems, your
leader's telling you, but if they're not,
or you wanna know, ask.
Make sure you're asking those questions
and making sure there's alignment there.
Your team should be having
impact on the business, right?
At the end of the day, we're paid to do
a job for a reason, and there's outcomes.
It varies and shows up in different ways,
but you wanna make sure that you're
doing the right things and
having impact on the business.
Now, you'll make mistakes.
Let's not forget, that's a good thing.
You can evolve and
learn from those mistakes.
And I don't think anyone's
gonna fault you for that, but
you ultimately do wanna be delivering
something for the business.
And this kinda gets to
that making mistakes.
I'm a big believer in
continuous improvement.
It's like, yeah, own those mistakes,
what could be better?
This worked, but
what would we do different?
I'm a fan, I don't know, anyone do
retrospectives in their companies?
Yeah, that's good.
You don't have to do them
just cuz there was a problem.
Sometimes my favorite question is,
what's working?
And just continuing that.
But evolving the processes that you
use and saying like, wow, yeah,
we spent way too much time on stand ups.
Next time let's not do that,
let's try something different.
So you wanna continuously improve and
try something different and
figure out what works best.
This is a good one, too, that I often
kinda maybe don't think about, but it's,
how does your team show up?
Are they being consistent?
Are you being consistent?
So, people, partners, other people in
the company know what to expect of you and
your team, that goes a long way for
building trust.
They know how to operate with you.
I mean, I guess you could show up
poorly and be consistent on it too.
Hopefully, you can change that but
people know what they get,
and that is absolutely
an important factor.
So those are kinda some of the things
I've been thinking about as
a recap on high-performing teams.
What else?
What have I missed?
You all have suggestions.
>> One of mine is, how often do I have to
step in for, I think, smaller decisions?
And how often do our problems getting
solved without me even knowing about them
is a really good strong indicator
the team is functioning well.
Where I just get feedback from
somebody who was was like, hey,
someone on your team solved this thing.
I was like, that was a problem?
I didn't even heard about it.
And that's that's where
I like to operate at,
is they're just doing that cuz
they know how to do it without me.
>> That is the best kinda problem,
I love those and they just get solved.
And you're, yeah, this is great.
And then that's a good point for
you to make sure you're giving positive
reinforcement on, yeah, that's
exactly what I wanna see on this team.
Any other suggestions?
>> What this raises in my mind is when
you're having a team that is struggling
and you're in this constant cycle of
you're trying to add features and
solve problems but bugs come up.
And then it's just a cycle of
you're trying to fix them,
cause more bugs kind of thing.
And what I'm curious about, I guess,
and maybe you'll go into this.
But how to fix that cycle.
How to try to get to be
high-performing when you're not.
>> Yes, I love that question.
I've totally been in that case, too.
And you need to take a step back and
evaluate.
Maybe your team is trying
to do too many things.
That could be it.
It may be that you need to
actually pause on some stuff too,
and that can be hard to have
those conversations, too.
Especially, if you're working
with a product management team
who's expecting certain things, you've
got to put an end to this cycle, right?
And so it might take taking
a step back and going,
we don't have the right
processes in place.
We haven't paid tech debt down, and
there's ways in which you can quickly
change those behaviors, but
you have to be very explicit.
So, let's say I had an application
that had no tests at all.
That's happened, right?
And that's not great, we're probably
shipping and there's a lot of bugs that
are happening and that might be a solve
to fix the quality that's going out.
But how do you write tests when you're
constantly trying to keep up or maybe for
new features able to write more tests, but
you still need to go back to the baseline.
So I'll set aside time.
And it may mean that my team moves slower.
For the next quarter,
we're going back and we're writing tests,
that's what we're doing.
I'm telling my team that,
we're focusing on that.
But I'm also communicating that to my
partners, and they might be frustrated.
I wanna talk about it,
let's have that conversation.
Maybe we can't spend as much time on it.
All right, let's talk about that.
So I think about it now is that you
kinda have to do something a little bit
more drastic.
You can't just expect
that it's gonna change.
Yeah.
>> And kinda related to that.
How would you tell a person or
a member of the team that they need
to improve in some technical area?
>> It's a good one, we do get into
some feedback later in the sections.
But I think being honest with someone,
too.
If I'm talking to an individual
on my team, I'm gonna say, like,
I'm a little worried about you
not having this technical skill.
How do you feel about that?
Do you feel the same?
Are you struggling in this area?
And then the two of us
can work through that.
Maybe it's that I need to help, maybe I
put them in the wrong project, too, right?
That's not something that
they're passionate about or
it is the skills aren't aligned,
that could be it.
Maybe it's they're like, I do need
a little more depth in this area.
So maybe I can help pair them up
with someone else on the team or
someone else in the company.
Maybe there's going to courses on
something like Frontend Masters,
that might help them.
So it's things like that that
you just think creatively and
trying to how to solve that
is what I would approach.
Question.
>> I was just gonna say,
on teams I've been on,
if you have a great structure,
the team just cares.
I think it's really simple,
if they care about the work and
they care about the product,
a lot of things fall into line.
>> Yeah, passion, and they're really
bought into what you're doing,
right, and excited about it.
That can go a long way.
I think about that, even if everyone on my
team is like, I love what we do as a team.
There's certain projects that
speak to them even more.
Lean into that, right?
Everyone works on exactly
what they wanna work on.
But as a manager,
you might be thinking about that as like,
yeah, you would like that type of project.
I'm gonna keep an eye open for
that kinda project coming up.
And that definitely keeps people happy and
more driven on that work.
That's a good call out.
>> Ryan,
if if your team's consistently performing,
how do you know when to adjust processes?
Cuz you don't wanna mess up their flow but
you're always like, things be optimized.
So how do you strike that balance?
>> That's a good question.
Yeah, don't fix what's not broken, right?
It's working.
I think it is recognizing maybe it's
from those retrospectives where there's,
everything's so good.
Okay, cool, but
maybe there was something that we
could have done a little bit better.
And so maybe you as the leader taking
a step back and saying, what could be
better and just maybe optimizing or
making small adjustments or suggestions.
Or even just asking the team,
too, for suggestions on that.
But I don't think you need to take a full
swing, like I said, where you're having to
pay down tech debt or something, where
you're like, we actually need to pause on
some things or cut scope in
an area to really go deep on it.
It might just be trying some incremental
improvements just to constantly get
a little bit better.
I don't think anyone's perfect, right?
And so it's, how do you adjust?
But you don't need the pendulum
to swing too far the other way.
And maybe you do, and
you accidentally do that, and you're like,
it was actually better
the way we had it before.
That happens, and that's okay.
You've actually learned something,
that it was working better before and
stick with it.
It can be painful if you're constantly
doing that to your team, but I think if
you can try different things and evaluate,
you're gonna get better and better for it.